# Abstract (done)

WaveFunctionCollapse (WFC), is a Procedural Content Generation (PCG) technique that learns pixel associations from the given input to generate similar classes of output. By learning pixel associations, WFC lets users bypass the tedious and time consuming step of decomposing their domain knowledge of a design area into a form that a WFC can understand. Yet, the designers lose fine control over the generative space that developing their own rules gives them. This paper explores automatic rule generation through WFC by exposing the pattern-based learning used by WFC to generate its pixel associations. By generating rules in the same representation as human designers, we hope this approach would ease the hard authorial task of crafting a bespoke rule set for WFC and address the authorial burden problem while prompting transparency. To better understand the internal association generation, we will explore the algorithm within this paper, focusing mostly on the pattern learning aspect of WFC. Focusing on these two aspects of the algorithm enables us to understand how to generate rules automatically and also test their validity. Finally, we supply a preliminary set of evaluation techniques to ensure that the generated rules capture the patterns within the input image, and can generate images through the rules that are similar to the original input image. By generating rules we hope to better understand the first steps towards creating a mixed initiative level tool centered on WFC that both allows users to give a series of training images, but also allow for the flexibility of adding, removing, and editing the generated rules for more user control of the generative process.

